I will use my secondary school as case sample.

A School should be grouped under these roles.
- Admins 
        Principals

- Staff
    Vice Principal
    Bursar
    Teachers
        per Departments
        per form class
    Non Academic Staffs
    bloggers

- Students

- Parents

------- Functionalities of the Admin (Principal) -----------

1. Able to assign roles to any of the users.
2. Create,Read,Update and Delete Staff, students and parents.
3. Create new Departments and add teachers to them.
4. See the progress and data of all users.
5. Able to generate result of either an individual, a whole form(JS1A) or class(JS1).
6. Assign Students to any class, teacher to any class or Departments.
7. Create timetable for exam, test or school calender.
8. Able to upload document for any of the users.
9. Make edit in the website.
10. Able to view payments transaction receipts.
11. View teachers per Departments, form, extra curriculum activties or house.
12  View students by gender, form, class, subject, house etc.

------- Functionalities of the (Vice Principal) -----------

1. All except assigning roles of a vice Principal.

------- Functionalities of the Bursar -----------

1. Handles all payments.

------- Functionalities of the Teachers -----------

Teachers must be grouped into Departments and extra curriculum activties. 
While some will be in charge of class or houses.

1. Will be able to have list of students of each classes being taught, their records (both past and present),
and able to update records for each students per session.
    - Records are
        a. test 15% 15% 70%
        b. attendance which will be grouped into (100% -> A particular remark, 70% - A particular remark)

2. form teachers should be able to access thier students present result (if form teachers changes) and cross check if needed.
the results should be in form of first, second and third term. Can track each progress and send to their emails if need be.

3. house and extra curriculum teachers should be able to view students from all classes.

4. Update Attendance and give reasons for absence.

------- Functionalities of the Students -----------

1. Pay fees
2. See Results and list of subject for the session
3. See teachers who are in charge of their different activties with images.

------- Functionalities of the Parents -----------

1. See Child results and list of subjects.
2. See teachers in charge of their different activties with images of said teacher.
3. see details of each transactions.


Number of total students -  240
    40 for JSS1 and the rest

Number of subject - 5 subjects

Number of extra curriculum activties - 3

Number of houses - 3

differentiate males and female in football and extracurriculum activiities.